'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1989-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: GetInt.3,v 1.14 2007/12/13 15:22:31 dgp Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tcl_GetInt 3 "" Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_GetInt, Tcl_GetDouble, Tcl_GetBoolean \- convert from string to integer, double, or boolean
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetInt\fR(\fIinterp, src, intPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetDouble\fR(\fIinterp, src, doublePtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetBoolean\fR(\fIinterp, src, boolPtr\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *doublePtr out
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP "const char" *src in
Textual value to be converted.
.AP int *intPtr out
Points to place to store integer value converted from \fIsrc\fR.
.AP double *doublePtr out
Points to place to store double-precision floating-point
value converted from \fIsrc\fR.
.AP int *boolPtr out
Points to place to store boolean value (0 or 1) converted from \fIsrc\fR.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These procedures convert from strings to integers or double-precision
floating-point values or booleans (represented as 0- or 1-valued
integers).  Each of the procedures takes a \fIsrc\fR argument,
converts it to an internal form of a particular type, and stores
the converted value at the location indicated by the procedure's
third argument.  If all goes well, each of the procedures returns
\fBTCL_OK\fR.  If \fIsrc\fR does not have the proper syntax for the
desired type then \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, an error message is left
in the interpreter's result, and nothing is stored at *\fIintPtr\fR
or *\fIdoublePtr\fR or *\fIboolPtr\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetInt\fR expects \fIsrc\fR to consist of a collection
of integer digits, optionally signed and optionally preceded by
white space.  If the first two characters of \fIsrc\fR
after the optional white space and sign are
.QW 0x
then \fIsrc\fR is expected to be in hexadecimal form;  otherwise,
if the first such character is
.QW 0
then \fIsrc\fR
is expected to be in octal form;  otherwise, \fIsrc\fR is
expected to be in decimal form.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetDouble\fR expects \fIsrc\fR to consist of a floating-point
number, which is:  white space;  a sign; a sequence of digits;  a
decimal point;  a sequence of digits;  the letter
.QW e ;
a signed decimal exponent;  and more white space.
Any of the fields may be omitted, except that
the digits either before or after the decimal point must be present
and if the
.QW e
is present then it must be followed by the exponent number.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetBoolean\fR expects \fIsrc\fR to specify a boolean
value.  If \fIsrc\fR is any of \fB0\fR, \fBfalse\fR,
\fBno\fR, or \fBoff\fR, then \fBTcl_GetBoolean\fR stores a zero
value at \fI*boolPtr\fR.
If \fIsrc\fR is any of \fB1\fR, \fBtrue\fR, \fByes\fR, or \fBon\fR,
then 1 is stored at \fI*boolPtr\fR.
Any of these values may be abbreviated, and upper-case spellings
are also acceptable.

.SH KEYWORDS
boolean, conversion, double, floating-point, integer
