'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1996-1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: IntObj.3,v 1.14.2.1 2008/06/27 19:55:33 dgp Exp $
'\" 
.so man.macros
.TH Tcl_IntObj 3 8.5 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_NewIntObj, Tcl_NewLongObj, Tcl_NewWideIntObj, Tcl_SetIntObj, Tcl_SetLongObj, Tcl_SetWideIntObj, Tcl_GetIntFromObj, Tcl_GetLongFromObj, Tcl_GetWideIntFromObj, Tcl_NewBignumObj, Tcl_SetBignumObj, Tcl_GetBignumFromObj, Tcl_TakeBignumFromObj \- manipulate Tcl objects as integer values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewIntObj\fR(\fIintValue\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewLongObj\fR(\fIlongValue\fR)
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewWideIntObj\fR(\fIwideValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetIntObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, intValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetLongObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, longValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetWideIntObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, wideValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetIntFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, intPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetLongFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, longPtr\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetWideIntFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, widePtr\fR)
.sp
.sp
.VS 8.5
\fB#include <tclTomMath.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewBignumObj\fR(\fIbigValue\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetBignumObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, bigValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, bigValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, bigValue\fR)
.sp
int
\fBTcl_InitBignumFromDouble\fR(\fIinterp, doubleValue, bigValue\fR)
.VE 8.5
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_WideInt doubleValue in/out
.AP int intValue in
Integer value used to initialize or set a Tcl object.
.AP long longValue in
Long integer value used to initialize or set a Tcl object.
.AP Tcl_WideInt wideValue in
Wide integer value used to initialize or set a Tcl object.
.AP Tcl_Obj *objPtr in/out
For \fBTcl_SetIntObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetLongObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetWideIntObj\fR,
and \fBTcl_SetBignumObj\fR, this points to the object in which to store an
integral value.  For \fBTcl_GetIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetLongFromObj\fR,
\fBTcl_GetWideIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR, and
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR, this refers to the object from which
to retrieve an integral value.
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in/out
When non-NULL, an error message is left here when integral value
retrieval fails.
.AP int *intPtr out
Points to place to store the integer value retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR.
.AP long *longPtr out
Points to place to store the long integer value retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR.
.AP Tcl_WideInt *widePtr out
Points to place to store the wide integer value retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR.
.AP mp_int *bigValue in/out
.VS 8.5
Points to a multi-precision integer structure declared by the LibTomMath
library.
.VE 8.5
.AP double doubleValue in
.VS 8.5
Double value from which the integer part is determined and
used to initialize a multi-precision integer value.
.VE 8.5
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.VS 8.5
These procedures are used to create, modify, and read Tcl objects
that hold integral values.  
.PP
The different routines exist to accomodate different integral types in C
with which values might be exchanged.  The C integral types for which Tcl
provides value exchange routines are \fBint\fR, \fBlong int\fR,
\fBTcl_WideInt\fR, and \fBmp_int\fR.  The \fBint\fR and \fBlong int\fR types
are provided by the C language standard.  The \fBTcl_WideInt\fR type is a
typedef defined to be whatever signed integral type covers at least the
64-bit integer range (-9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807).  Depending
on the platform and the C compiler, the actual type might be
\fBlong int\fR, \fBlong long int\fR, \fBint64\fR, or something else.
The \fBmp_int\fR type is a multiple-precision integer type defined
by the LibTomMath multiple-precision integer library.  
.PP
The \fBTcl_NewIntObj\fR, \fBTcl_NewLongObj\fR, \fBTcl_NewWideIntObj\fR,
and \fBTcl_NewBignumObj\fR routines each create and return a new
Tcl object initialized to the integral value of the argument.  The
returned Tcl object is unshared.
.PP
The \fBTcl_SetIntObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetLongObj\fR, \fBTcl_SetWideIntObj\fR,
and \fBTcl_SetBignumObj\fR routines each set the value of an existing
Tcl object pointed to by \fIobjPtr\fR to the integral value provided
by the other argument.  The \fIobjPtr\fR argument must point to an
unshared Tcl object.  Any attempt to set the value of a shared Tcl object
violates Tcl's copy-on-write policy.  Any existing string representation
or internal representation in the unshared Tcl object will be freed
as a consequence of setting the new value.
.PP
The \fBTcl_GetIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetLongFromObj\fR,
\fBTcl_GetWideIntFromObj\fR, \fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR, and
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR routines attempt to retrieve an integral
value of the appropriate type from the Tcl object \fIobjPtr\fR.  If the
attempt succeeds, then \fBTCL_OK\fR is returned, and the value is
written to the storage provided by the caller.  The attempt might
fail if \fIobjPtr\fR does not hold an integral value, or if the
value exceeds the range of the target type.  If the attempt fails,
then \fBTCL_ERROR\fR is returned, and if \fIinterp\fR is non-NULL,
an error message is left in \fIinterp\fR.  The \fBTcl_ObjType\fR
of \fIobjPtr\fR may be changed to make subsequent calls to the
same routine more efficient. Unlike the other functions,
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR may set the content of the Tcl object
\fIobjPtr\fR to an empty string in the process of retrieving the
multiple-precision integer value.
.PP
The choice between \fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR and
\fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR is governed by how the caller will
continue to use \fIobjPtr\fR.  If after the \fBmp_int\fR value
is retrieved from \fIobjPtr\fR, the caller will make no more
use of \fIobjPtr\fR, then using \fBTcl_TakeBignumFromObj\fR
permits Tcl to detect when an unshared \fIobjPtr\fR permits the
value to be moved instead of copied, which should be more efficient.
If anything later in the caller requires
\fIobjPtr\fR to continue to hold the same value, then
\fBTcl_GetBignumFromObj\fR must be chosen.
.PP
The \fBTcl_InitBignumFromDouble\fR routine is a utility procedure
that extracts the integer part of \fIdoubleValue\fR and stores that
integer value in the \fBmp_int\fR value \fIbigValue\fR.
.VE 8.5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_NewObj, Tcl_DecrRefCount, Tcl_IncrRefCount, Tcl_GetObjResult
.SH KEYWORDS
integer, integer object, integer type, internal representation, object, object type, string representation
