License and copyright details for this installation of the Bluespec
Compiler tools are given below.  Detailed information, along with
the source code, is available in the BSC GitHub repository:

  https://github.com/B-Lang-org/bsc

-------------------------

Source files in this repository are copyright and licensed as
indicated in the files themselves.  If not otherwise specified, they
are copyright Bluespec Inc and licensed under the BSD-3-Clause
license, as indicated at the end of this file.

The library objects in the SAT directory, for STP and Yices, are
licensed and copyright as follows:

* STP - Constraint solver
  * The library is built from an adapted snapshot of STP
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.stp and LICENSES/LICENSE.stp_components

* The Yices SMT Solver
  * The library is built from the Yices GitHub repository
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.yices

The executable binaries in the bin directory (bsc, bluetcl, etc) are
built from source code partially copyright Bluespec Inc and licensed
under the BSD-3-Clause license, as indicated at the end of this file.
They are also built with the following code or APIs with their own
copyright and licensing:

* STP - Constraint solver
  * BSC tools are linked with the library
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.stp

* The Yices SMT Solver
  * BSC tools are linked with the library
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.yices

* yices-painless - Haskell package
  * BSC tools use foreign function declarations adapted from
    Don Stewart's yices-painless package
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.yices-painless

* GHC Haskell Libraries
  * BSC source includes a file adapted from the GHC MVar library
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.ghc

* HBC Libraries
  * BSC source includes files adapted from Haskell libraries
    (from the HBC compiler) written by Lennart Augustsson and
    Thomas Johnsson at Chalmers University
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.hbc

* Parsec
  * BSC source includes files adapted from Daan Leijen's Parsec
    Haskell library
  * See LICENSES/LICENSE.parsec

We also wish to acknowledge everyone who has contributed to the open
source project: https://github.com/B-Lang-org/bsc/graphs/contributors

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2020 Bluespec, Inc. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the
   distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
